---
layout: page
title: "Big Four bank's FX Platform Case Study"
permalink: /BofA-Platform-Case-Study
tags:
  - Trunk-Based Development
  - Branch by Abstraction
  - Legacy Rejuvenation
---

In 2005, I assessed this "Big Four" bank's FX platform in Chicago, and presented back to the leadership on their challenges and
left them with recommendations. I went on to lead a development technology-focused mission for them implementing the 
recommendations.

In one choreographed effort, I organized, and trained the staff in:

1. A move from ClearCase (multiple active branches) to Perforce (trunk based development & monorepo)
2. A move from a single giant package hierarchy, to a recursive build (Maven style, but with Ant)
3. Ant script templatization and cleanup
4. A move from Singleton-esque shared static state lookup of components to service locator
5. Tactically adding tests as work progressed
6. Hooking everything up with a CI daemon (CruiseControl at the time).

Items #1 to #5 the above were performed in parallel.  At any one time we were part complete on all of the those, and each
would leap forward a percentage as emphasis shifted to it tactically towards the larger completion.

And when #4 was complete, 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;7. Service Locator to Dependency Injection, according to a methodical 'Least depending, most depended
on first' approach.

ThoughtWorks rolled off the account before the mission was complete, but I was invited back a year later to check
progress. A day trip to Chicago from San Francisco!

## Branch by Abstraction

One of the major contributions I've made to the DevOps field is this procedure, and it cme ouf ot the BofA mission.

## Legacy Refactoring: Least depending, most depended on first

This approach to a large refactoring agenda came out of this mission. I first documented it for InfoQ in 2008[^drink]. It
was referenced in a follow up "refactoring experiment" article[^exp], and updated and made into a PDF in 2013[^pdf].
Actual animations from the BofA recommendation deck were redone in JavaScript and SVG for a blog entry on "tweening"
in 2016 for fun[^tween].
    
[^drink]: [Drinking your Guice too quickly?](https://www.infoq.com/articles/drinking-your-guice-too-quickly) (Apr, 2008, InfoQ)
[^exp]: [Refactoring Experiment - 'least depending and most depended on' components first](https://paulhammant.com/2011/09/01/refactoring-experiment/) (Sep, 2011, my blog)
[^pdf]: [A Singleton Escape Plan](https://paulhammant.com/2013/03/20/singleton-escape-plan/) (Mar, 2013, PDF on my blog)
[^tween]: [Java legacy hairball: refactoring case-study](https://paulhammant.com/2016/07/25/java-legacy-hairball-refactoring-case-study/) (Jul, 2016, my blog)
 




